# phac-nml/fastmatchirida: Output

## Introduction

This document describes the output produced by the pipeline.

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory after the pipeline has finished. All paths are relative to the top-level results directory.

- **append**: The passed metadata to the pipeline appended to sample-sample distance pairings.
- **distances**: Distances between genomes from [profile_dists](https://github.com/phac-nml/profile_dists).
- **locidex**: The merged MLST JSON files (merge) into a single MLST profiles file (concat).
- **pipeline_info**: Information about the pipeline's execution.
- **process**: Processed sample-sample distance pairings.
- **write**: Headers for generating final files.

The IRIDA Next-compliant JSON output file will be named `iridanext.output.json.gz` and will be written to the top-level of the results directory. This file is compressed using GZIP and conforms to the [IRIDA Next JSON output specifications](https://github.com/phac-nml/pipeline-standards#42-irida-next-json).

## Pipeline overview

The pipeline is built using [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/) and processes data using the following steps:

- [Locidex Merge/Concat Query](#locidex-merge-concat) - Merges query MLST profile JSON files into profile files then concatenates them into a single file.
- [Locidex Merge/Concat References](#locidex-merge-concat) - Merges reference MLST profile JSON files into profiles files then concatenates them into a single file.
- [Profile Dists](#profile-dists) - Computes pairwise distances between genomes using MLST allele differences.
- [Append Metadata](#append-metadata) - Appends the passed input metadata to the pairwise distances.
- [Process Output](#process-output) - Processes sample-sample distance pairings by distance threshold.

### Locidex Merge Concat

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `locidex/`
  - `merge/`
    - `query/`
      - Merged MLST query profiles: `profile_{n}.tsv`
      - Merged MLST query error reports: `MLST_error_report_{n}.csv`
    - `ref/`
      - Merged MLST reference profiles: `profile_{n}.tsv`
      - Merged MLST reference error reports: `MLST_error_report_{n}.csv`

  - `concat/`
    - `query/`
      - Concatenated MLST query profiles: `profile_concat_query.tsv`
      - Concatenated MLST error reports: `MLST_error_report_concat_query.csv`
    - `reference/`
      - Concatenated MLST reference profiles: `profile_concat_ref.tsv`
      - Concatenated MLST error reports: `MLST_error_report_concat_ref.csv`

</details>

### Profile Dists

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `distances/`
  - Mapping allele identifiers to integers: `allele_map.json`.
    For example:
    ```json
    {
      "l1": {
        "60b725f10c9c85c70d97880dfe8191b3": 1
      },
      "l2": {
        "60b725f10c9c85c70d97880dfe8191b3": 1
      },
      "l3": {
        "3b5d5c3712955042212316173ccf37be": 1,
        "60b725f10c9c85c70d97880dfe8191b3": 2
      }
    }
    ```
  - The query MLST profiles: `query_profile.tsv`
  - The reference MLST profiles: `ref_profile.tsv`
  - The computed distances based on MLST allele differences: `results.tsv`
  - Information on the profile_dists run: `run.json`

</details>

### Append Metadata

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `append/`
  - The passed input metadata columns appended to the pairwise distances: `distances_and_metadata.tsv`

</details>

### Process Output

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `process/`
  - Pairwise distance results meeting specifications in TSV-format: `results.tsv`
  - Pairwise distance results meeting specifications in XLSX-format: `results.xlsx`

</details>

### IRIDA Next Output

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `/`
  - IRIDA Next-compliant JSON output: `iridanext.output.json.gz`

</details>

### Pipeline Information

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `pipeline_info/`
  - Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  - Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
  - Reformatted samplesheet files used as input to the pipeline: `samplesheet.valid.csv`.
  - Parameters used by the pipeline run: `params.json`.

</details>

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.
